README.md, before:

# RinSim 2.3.1

RinSim is an extensible multi-agent system (MAS) simulator. The simulator focusses on __simplicity__ and __consistency__ which makes it ideal for performing scientific simulations. Further, there is huge focus on software quality which results in an ever improving test suite and JavaDoc comments. RinSim supports pluggable models which allow to extend the scope of the simulator. Out of the box, RinSim currently focusses on MAS for PDP (Pickup and Delivery Problems). You can easily extend RinSim by introducing your own custom models.

<!-- ![PDPModel](docs/topbar.png) -->
![Taxi Demo](docs/taxi-demo.gif)

## Installation
The RinSim simulator uses [Maven](http://maven.apache.org/) for managing its dependencies. We recommend the [Maven plugin for Eclipse](http://www.eclipse.org/m2e/). Once this is installed and a new Maven project is created, RinSim can be added by including the following in your pom file, where x and y represents the preferred version number.
```xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.github.rinde</groupId>
	<artifactId>rinsim-core</artifactId>
	<version>2.x.y</version>
</dependency>
```	
Other modules can be added similarly:
```xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.github.rinde</groupId>
	<artifactId>rinsim-ui</artifactId>
	<version>2.x.y</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.github.rinde</groupId>
	<artifactId>rinsim-problem</artifactId>
	<version>2.x.y</version>
</dependency>
```		
For more detailed instructions on how create a Maven project in Eclipse and add RinSim as a dependency see the [instructions](docs/howtorun.md). For release notes of the latest release click [here](releasenotes.md).


<!-- 
* Use the latest builds available on [this page](http://people.cs.kuleuven.be/~rinde.vanlon/rinsim/binaries/). The zip file contains all the jars, dependencies and JavaDocs of the simulator. All Jars have to be added manually to your classpath.
* Use Git and Maven, see the section on [Git & Maven](https://github.com/rinde/RinSim#git-and-maven). Currently this is the preferred option since it allows one to easily follow changes in the code by updating the repository.
-->
 
## Getting Started 

Once the simulator is installed, you are ready to explore the simulator. It is recommended to start by running and studying the [examples](example/README.md). Note, that when using Maven in Eclipse, the RinSim JavaDocs are automatically made available which makes exploration of the code much easier.  The remainder of this page gives a high level overview of the simulator. If you have questions or like to stay up to date about RinSim you can subscribe to the mailing list at [this page](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!forum/rinsim).
<!-- The JavaDocs are also available online on [this page](http://people.cs.kuleuven.be/~rinde.vanlon/rinsim/javadoc/). -->

## About
RinSim is being developed at [AgentWise](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/research/taskforces/agentwise) in the [DistriNet group](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/) at the [Department of Computer Science, KU Leuven, Belgium](http://www.cs.kuleuven.be/). The lead developer is [Rinde van Lon](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/people/rinde). Valuable contributions were made by Bartosz Michalik and Robrecht Haesevoets.

RinSim is being used in both research and education. It is used in several publications on multi-agent systems and it is used in a MAS course as a testbed for students.


## Design Overview

This section gives a brief overview of the most important elements of the simulator. For a deeper understanding you can have a look at the examples, the source code, and the tests.

In RinSim terminology, the parts of the simulation that define the problem and environment are called models, the parts of the simulation that solve the problem (i.e. the solution, the collective adaptive system) are called agents. The design of RinSim allows for easy use and recombination of models to configure a simulation problem. When the problem is configured, the programmer can focus on solving the actual problem by designing a collective adaptive system without having to worry about accidentally violating simulation consistency. The following figure shows a high-level component diagram:

![PDPModel](docs/DesignOverview.png)

Actions that agents can take are considered to be part of the problem not the solution, e.g. a vehicle that can pickup things or can communicate with other vehicles. Actions define the problem space in which a good solution has to be found.

<!--A simplified class diagram of the key elements can be found [here](http://people.cs.kuleuven.be/~robrecht.haesevoets/mascourse/docs/classDiagram.png). -->

### Simulator

The _Simulator_ class is the heart of RinSim. Its main concern is to simulate time. This is done in a discrete manner. Time is divided in ticks of a certain length, which is chosen upon initializing the simulator (see examples and code).

Of course time on its own is not so useful, so we can register objects in the simulator, such as objects implementing the _TickListener_ interface. These objects will listen to the internal clock of the simulator. You can also register other objects, as we will see in a moment.

Once started, the simulator will start to tick, and with each tick it will call all registered tickListeners, in turn, to perform some actions within the length of the time step. Time consistency is enforced by the _TimeLapse_ objects. Each _TickListener_ receives a single _TimeLapse_ object every tick, the time in this object can be 'spent' on actions. This spending can be done only once, as such an agent can not violate the time consistency in the simulator. For example, calling _RoadModel#moveTo(..)_ several times will have no effect.

As you can see there is also an _afterTick_, but we'll ignore this for now.

Apart from simulating time, the simulator has little functionality on its own.
All additional functionality (such as movement, communication, etc.) that is required by your simulation, should be delegated to models.
These models can be easily plugged (or registered) in the simulator.

### Models

Out of the box, RinSim comes with three basic models: _RoadModel_, _CommunicationModel_ and _PDPModel_. When this is not enough, it is easy to define your own custom model.

* __RoadModel__: simulates a physical road structure. The _RoadModel_ allows to place and move objects (_RoadUsers_) on roads. It comes in two flavors:
	* __GraphRoadModel__: A graph based road model, objects can only move on edges of the graph. Several maps are currently available [here](http://people.cs.kuleuven.be/~rinde.vanlon/rinsim/maps/).
	* __PlaneRoadModel__: A plane based road model, objects can move anywhere within the plane.
* __PDPModel__: the pickup-and-delivery model. The model collaborates with the _RoadModel_, the models comes with three different _RoadUser_s: _Vehicle_, _Parcel_ and _Depot_. _Vehicles_ can transport _Parcels_ from and to _Depots_. The model enforces capacity constraints, time windows and position consistency.
* __CommunicationModel__: simulates simple message-based communication between objects implementing the _CommunicationUser_ interface.
It supports both direct messaging and broadcasting.
It can also take distance, communication radius, and communication reliability into account.
Messages between agents are send asynchronously.

![RoadModel](docs/RoadModel.png) ![PDPModel](docs/PDPModel.png) ![CommunicationModel](docs/CommunicationModel.png)

### GUI

The GUI is realized by the _SimulationViewer_, which relies on a set of _Renderers_.

* __SimulationViewer__: is responsible for rendering the simulator. Specific renderers can be added for each model, for the provided models there exist default renderers.

* __Renderer__: is responsible for rendering one model (or more).
Examples are the _RoadUserRenderer_ to do basic rendering of objects in the _RoadModel_, or _MessagingLayerRenderer_ to visualize messages between agents.
When introducing new models you can create new custom renderers for these models.

### Simulation Entities

Simulation entities are entities that are the actual objects in our simulation, such as agents, trucks, and packages.
They can implement the _TickListener_ interface and/or other interfaces to use additional models.
Once registered in the simulator, the simulator will make sure they receive ticks (if required) and are registered in all required models.

<!--
## Git and Maven
This section assumes that you are using [Eclipse](http://www.eclipse.org) with [m2e](http://eclipse.org/m2e/) and optionally [eGit](http://www.eclipse.org/egit/). Installation instructions for each can be found on their respective websites.

### Using eGit

* Go to _File -> Import..._
* Select _Git -> Projects from Git_ and click _next_.
* Select _URI_ and click _next_.
* Enter
````
git@github.com:rinde/RinSim.git
````
in the URI field, select _https_ as protocol, and click _next_.
* Select the __v2__ branch and click _next_.
* Choose a local directory for your project and click _next_.
* Wait for eGit to download the project.
* Make sure _Import existing projects_ is selected and click _next_.
* Click _finish_.

You will now have one project in eclipse. See _Importing the Maven projects in eclipse_ on how to actually use it.

To update the simulator later on, right-click on the top-level project, go to _Team_ and select and select _Pull_.


### Using Git (commandline)

* Open a terminal.
* Navigate to the directory where you want to store the RinSim project.
* Execute the following git command

	````
	git clone git://github.com/rinde/RinSim.git
	````
	
	This will download all the source files of the RinSim project to your local directory.

To update the simulator later on, you can use the _pull_ command:

````
git pull origin v2
````

### Importing the Maven projects in eclipse

RinSim relies on Maven to load all required dependencies.
To make use of Maven in eclipse you have to execute the following steps:

* In eclipse go to _File -> Import... -> Maven -> Existing Maven Projects_.
* Browse to your local RinSim directory.
* You will now see a list of _.pom_ files.
* Select all the _.pom_ files except the one named _packaging_
* Click _Finish_.

After finishing the import, you should see the following four projects in your workspace:

* _core_: the heart of the simulator and the models.
* _ui_: everything related to visualizing stuff for the simulator. 
* _example_: some simple examples of how to use the simulator.
* _problem_: some specific problem implementations.



#### Using eGit

1. Go to _File -> Import..._
* Select _Git -> Projects from Git_.
* Select _URI_.
* Enter
````
git@github.com:rinde/RinSim.git
````
in the URI field (do not alter any other input fields) and click _next_.
* __Only__ select the __v2__ branch and click _next_.
* Choose a local directory for your project and click _next_.
* Wait for eGit to download the project.
* Make sure _Import existing projects_ is selected and click _next_.
* Click _finish_.

You will now have one project in eclipse.
Because we use Maven, you cannot use this project directly.
Instead, You now have to import the all sub-projects (except __packaging__) individually.
Perform steps __1__ to __9__ again for each sub-project

__Important__: In step 6, choose another directory for the specific sub-project.
In step 8, select core/ui/example from the working directory.

__Note__: Some versions of eclipse do not show the sub-directories in step 8.
To solve this, first click _back_ then again _next_.

To update the simulator later on, right-click on a specific sub-project, go to _Team_ and select _Pull_.


#### Using Git

* Open a terminal.
* Navigate to the directory where you want to store the RinSim project.
* Execute the following git command

	````
	git clone git://github.com/rinde/RinSim.git
	````
	
	This will download all the source files of the RinSim project to you local directory.

RinSim relies on Maven to load all required dependencies.
To make use of Maven in eclipse you have to execute the following steps:

* In eclipse go to _File -> Import... -> Maven -> Existing Maven Projects_
* Browse to your local RinSim directory.
* You will now see a list of _.pom_ files.
* Select all _.pom_ files except (_packaging.pom_).
* Click _Finish_

After finishing the import, you should see the following three projects in your workspace:

* _core_: the heart of the simulator and the models.
* _ui_: everything related to visualizing stuff for the simulator.
* _example_: some simple examples of how to use the simulator. 
* _problem_: standard problem implementations.

To update the simulator later on, you can use the _pull_ command:

````
git pull origin v2
````

-->





<!--
### Using gitHub's issues to report changes

You can use gitHub's issue feature to report problems, bugs, or useful features for RinSim.

Remember:

* The issue system should only be used for stuff directly related to RinSim, not for questions about the MAS course or for questions on how to do stuff with RinSim. You can use Toledo/lab sessions/fellow students for this.
* Check if your issue has already been reported.
* Be precise in the description of your issue.
* When reporting a bug, give sufficient information on how to reproduce the bug.
* Think twice before creating a new issue.
-->
<!-- 
_more guidelines available soon_

### Making pull requests for RinSim

_available soon_ -->

Commit message:

added additional link to instructions in readme and updated the troubleshooting section in howtorun

README.md, after:

# RinSim 2.3.1

RinSim is an extensible multi-agent system (MAS) simulator. The simulator focusses on __simplicity__ and __consistency__ which makes it ideal for performing scientific simulations. Further, there is huge focus on software quality which results in an ever improving test suite and JavaDoc comments. RinSim supports pluggable models which allow to extend the scope of the simulator. Out of the box, RinSim currently focusses on MAS for PDP (Pickup and Delivery Problems). You can easily extend RinSim by introducing your own custom models.

<!-- ![PDPModel](docs/topbar.png) -->
![Taxi Demo](docs/taxi-demo.gif)

## Installation

The RinSim simulator uses [Maven](http://maven.apache.org/) for managing its dependencies. We recommend the [Maven plugin for Eclipse](http://www.eclipse.org/m2e/). Once this is installed and a new Maven project is created, RinSim can be added by including the following in your pom file, where x and y represents the preferred version number. More __[detailed instructions](docs/howtorun.md)__ are available.
```xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.github.rinde</groupId>
	<artifactId>rinsim-core</artifactId>
	<version>2.x.y</version>
</dependency>
```	
Other modules can be added similarly:
```xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.github.rinde</groupId>
	<artifactId>rinsim-ui</artifactId>
	<version>2.x.y</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.github.rinde</groupId>
	<artifactId>rinsim-problem</artifactId>
	<version>2.x.y</version>
</dependency>
```		
For more detailed instructions on how create a Maven project in Eclipse and add RinSim as a dependency see the [instructions](docs/howtorun.md). For release notes of the latest release click [here](releasenotes.md).


<!-- 
* Use the latest builds available on [this page](http://people.cs.kuleuven.be/~rinde.vanlon/rinsim/binaries/). The zip file contains all the jars, dependencies and JavaDocs of the simulator. All Jars have to be added manually to your classpath.
* Use Git and Maven, see the section on [Git & Maven](https://github.com/rinde/RinSim#git-and-maven). Currently this is the preferred option since it allows one to easily follow changes in the code by updating the repository.
-->
 
## Getting Started 

Once the simulator is installed, you are ready to explore the simulator. It is recommended to start by running and studying the [examples](example/README.md). Note, that when using Maven in Eclipse, the RinSim JavaDocs are automatically made available which makes exploration of the code much easier.  The remainder of this page gives a high level overview of the simulator. If you have questions or like to stay up to date about RinSim you can subscribe to the mailing list at [this page](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!forum/rinsim).
<!-- The JavaDocs are also available online on [this page](http://people.cs.kuleuven.be/~rinde.vanlon/rinsim/javadoc/). -->

## About
RinSim is being developed at [AgentWise](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/research/taskforces/agentwise) in the [DistriNet group](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/) at the [Department of Computer Science, KU Leuven, Belgium](http://www.cs.kuleuven.be/). The lead developer is [Rinde van Lon](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/people/rinde). Valuable contributions were made by Bartosz Michalik and Robrecht Haesevoets.

RinSim is being used in both research and education. It is used in several publications on multi-agent systems and it is used in a MAS course as a testbed for students.


## Design Overview

This section gives a brief overview of the most important elements of the simulator. For a deeper understanding you can have a look at the examples, the source code, and the tests.

In RinSim terminology, the parts of the simulation that define the problem and environment are called models, the parts of the simulation that solve the problem (i.e. the solution, the collective adaptive system) are called agents. The design of RinSim allows for easy use and recombination of models to configure a simulation problem. When the problem is configured, the programmer can focus on solving the actual problem by designing a collective adaptive system without having to worry about accidentally violating simulation consistency. The following figure shows a high-level component diagram:

![PDPModel](docs/DesignOverview.png)

Actions that agents can take are considered to be part of the problem not the solution, e.g. a vehicle that can pickup things or can communicate with other vehicles. Actions define the problem space in which a good solution has to be found.

<!--A simplified class diagram of the key elements can be found [here](http://people.cs.kuleuven.be/~robrecht.haesevoets/mascourse/docs/classDiagram.png). -->

### Simulator

The _Simulator_ class is the heart of RinSim. Its main concern is to simulate time. This is done in a discrete manner. Time is divided in ticks of a certain length, which is chosen upon initializing the simulator (see examples and code).

Of course time on its own is not so useful, so we can register objects in the simulator, such as objects implementing the _TickListener_ interface. These objects will listen to the internal clock of the simulator. You can also register other objects, as we will see in a moment.

Once started, the simulator will start to tick, and with each tick it will call all registered tickListeners, in turn, to perform some actions within the length of the time step. Time consistency is enforced by the _TimeLapse_ objects. Each _TickListener_ receives a single _TimeLapse_ object every tick, the time in this object can be 'spent' on actions. This spending can be done only once, as such an agent can not violate the time consistency in the simulator. For example, calling _RoadModel#moveTo(..)_ several times will have no effect.

As you can see there is also an _afterTick_, but we'll ignore this for now.

Apart from simulating time, the simulator has little functionality on its own.
All additional functionality (such as movement, communication, etc.) that is required by your simulation, should be delegated to models.
These models can be easily plugged (or registered) in the simulator.

### Models

Out of the box, RinSim comes with three basic models: _RoadModel_, _CommunicationModel_ and _PDPModel_. When this is not enough, it is easy to define your own custom model.

* __RoadModel__: simulates a physical road structure. The _RoadModel_ allows to place and move objects (_RoadUsers_) on roads. It comes in two flavors:
	* __GraphRoadModel__: A graph based road model, objects can only move on edges of the graph. Several maps are currently available [here](http://people.cs.kuleuven.be/~rinde.vanlon/rinsim/maps/).
	* __PlaneRoadModel__: A plane based road model, objects can move anywhere within the plane.
* __PDPModel__: the pickup-and-delivery model. The model collaborates with the _RoadModel_, the models comes with three different _RoadUser_s: _Vehicle_, _Parcel_ and _Depot_. _Vehicles_ can transport _Parcels_ from and to _Depots_. The model enforces capacity constraints, time windows and position consistency.
* __CommunicationModel__: simulates simple message-based communication between objects implementing the _CommunicationUser_ interface.
It supports both direct messaging and broadcasting.
It can also take distance, communication radius, and communication reliability into account.
Messages between agents are send asynchronously.

![RoadModel](docs/RoadModel.png) ![PDPModel](docs/PDPModel.png) ![CommunicationModel](docs/CommunicationModel.png)

### GUI

The GUI is realized by the _SimulationViewer_, which relies on a set of _Renderers_.

* __SimulationViewer__: is responsible for rendering the simulator. Specific renderers can be added for each model, for the provided models there exist default renderers.

* __Renderer__: is responsible for rendering one model (or more).
Examples are the _RoadUserRenderer_ to do basic rendering of objects in the _RoadModel_, or _MessagingLayerRenderer_ to visualize messages between agents.
When introducing new models you can create new custom renderers for these models.

### Simulation Entities

Simulation entities are entities that are the actual objects in our simulation, such as agents, trucks, and packages.
They can implement the _TickListener_ interface and/or other interfaces to use additional models.
Once registered in the simulator, the simulator will make sure they receive ticks (if required) and are registered in all required models.

<!--
## Git and Maven
This section assumes that you are using [Eclipse](http://www.eclipse.org) with [m2e](http://eclipse.org/m2e/) and optionally [eGit](http://www.eclipse.org/egit/). Installation instructions for each can be found on their respective websites.

### Using eGit

* Go to _File -> Import..._
* Select _Git -> Projects from Git_ and click _next_.
* Select _URI_ and click _next_.
* Enter
````
git@github.com:rinde/RinSim.git
````
in the URI field, select _https_ as protocol, and click _next_.
* Select the __v2__ branch and click _next_.
* Choose a local directory for your project and click _next_.
* Wait for eGit to download the project.
* Make sure _Import existing projects_ is selected and click _next_.
* Click _finish_.

You will now have one project in eclipse. See _Importing the Maven projects in eclipse_ on how to actually use it.

To update the simulator later on, right-click on the top-level project, go to _Team_ and select and select _Pull_.


### Using Git (commandline)

* Open a terminal.
* Navigate to the directory where you want to store the RinSim project.
* Execute the following git command

	````
	git clone git://github.com/rinde/RinSim.git
	````
	
	This will download all the source files of the RinSim project to your local directory.

To update the simulator later on, you can use the _pull_ command:

````
git pull origin v2
````

### Importing the Maven projects in eclipse

RinSim relies on Maven to load all required dependencies.
To make use of Maven in eclipse you have to execute the following steps:

* In eclipse go to _File -> Import... -> Maven -> Existing Maven Projects_.
* Browse to your local RinSim directory.
* You will now see a list of _.pom_ files.
* Select all the _.pom_ files except the one named _packaging_
* Click _Finish_.

After finishing the import, you should see the following four projects in your workspace:

* _core_: the heart of the simulator and the models.
* _ui_: everything related to visualizing stuff for the simulator. 
* _example_: some simple examples of how to use the simulator.
* _problem_: some specific problem implementations.



#### Using eGit

1. Go to _File -> Import..._
* Select _Git -> Projects from Git_.
* Select _URI_.
* Enter
````
git@github.com:rinde/RinSim.git
````
in the URI field (do not alter any other input fields) and click _next_.
* __Only__ select the __v2__ branch and click _next_.
* Choose a local directory for your project and click _next_.
* Wait for eGit to download the project.
* Make sure _Import existing projects_ is selected and click _next_.
* Click _finish_.

You will now have one project in eclipse.
Because we use Maven, you cannot use this project directly.
Instead, You now have to import the all sub-projects (except __packaging__) individually.
Perform steps __1__ to __9__ again for each sub-project

__Important__: In step 6, choose another directory for the specific sub-project.
In step 8, select core/ui/example from the working directory.

__Note__: Some versions of eclipse do not show the sub-directories in step 8.
To solve this, first click _back_ then again _next_.

To update the simulator later on, right-click on a specific sub-project, go to _Team_ and select _Pull_.


#### Using Git

* Open a terminal.
* Navigate to the directory where you want to store the RinSim project.
* Execute the following git command

	````
	git clone git://github.com/rinde/RinSim.git
	````
	
	This will download all the source files of the RinSim project to you local directory.

RinSim relies on Maven to load all required dependencies.
To make use of Maven in eclipse you have to execute the following steps:

* In eclipse go to _File -> Import... -> Maven -> Existing Maven Projects_
* Browse to your local RinSim directory.
* You will now see a list of _.pom_ files.
* Select all _.pom_ files except (_packaging.pom_).
* Click _Finish_

After finishing the import, you should see the following three projects in your workspace:

* _core_: the heart of the simulator and the models.
* _ui_: everything related to visualizing stuff for the simulator.
* _example_: some simple examples of how to use the simulator. 
* _problem_: standard problem implementations.

To update the simulator later on, you can use the _pull_ command:

````
git pull origin v2
````

-->





<!--
### Using gitHub's issues to report changes

You can use gitHub's issue feature to report problems, bugs, or useful features for RinSim.

Remember:

* The issue system should only be used for stuff directly related to RinSim, not for questions about the MAS course or for questions on how to do stuff with RinSim. You can use Toledo/lab sessions/fellow students for this.
* Check if your issue has already been reported.
* Be precise in the description of your issue.
* When reporting a bug, give sufficient information on how to reproduce the bug.
* Think twice before creating a new issue.
-->
<!-- 
_more guidelines available soon_

### Making pull requests for RinSim

_available soon_ -->
