pages/about/index.md, before:

---
title: About RinSim
keywords: [about]
sidebar: about_sidebar
toc: false
permalink: /about/
folder: about
---

RinSim is developed at [AgentWise](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/research/taskforces/agentwise) in the [imec-DistriNet group](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/) at the [Department of Computer Science, KU Leuven, Belgium](http://www.cs.kuleuven.be/). The lead developer is [Rinde van Lon](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/people/rinde). Valuable contributions were made by Bartosz Michalik and Robrecht Haesevoets.

RinSim is used in both research and education. Several publications rely on RinSim for their experiments and RinSim is used in a course on multi-agent systems as a testbed for students.

## How to cite RinSim

TODO

## License

```
Copyright 2011-2017 Rinde van Lon

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

Commit message:

improved examples and about pages

pages/about/index.md, after:

---
title: About RinSim
keywords: [about]
sidebar: about_sidebar
toc: false
permalink: /about/
folder: about
---

RinSim is developed at [AgentWise](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/research/taskforces/agentwise) in the [imec-DistriNet group](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/) at the [Department of Computer Science, KU Leuven, Belgium](http://www.cs.kuleuven.be/). The lead developer is [Rinde van Lon](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/people/rinde). Valuable contributions were made by Bartosz Michalik and Robrecht Haesevoets.

RinSim is used in both research and education. Several publications rely on RinSim for their experiments and RinSim is used in a course on multi-agent systems as a testbed for students.

## How to cite RinSim

When using RinSim, academic papers should cite the following paper:

{% include cite.html authors="van Lon R.R.S., Holvoet T." title="RinSim: a simulator for collective adaptive systems in transportation and logistics" venue="Proceedings of the 6th IEEE International Conference on Self-Adaptive and Self-Organizing Systems (SASO 2012)" details="pp. 231--232" year="2012" doi="10.1109/SASO.2012.41" lirias="https://lirias.kuleuven.be/bitstream/123456789/361419/1/RinSim-extended-abstract.pdf" bibtex="/pages/about/vanLon2012saso.bib" %}

When using real-time simulations, it would be appreciated if the following paper would be cited as well:

{% include cite.html authors="van Lon R.R.S., Holvoet T." title="When do agents outperform centralized algorithms?" venue="Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems" year="2017" doi="10.1007/s10458-017-9371-y" lirias="https://lirias.kuleuven.be/bitstream/123456789/585362/1/jaamas2017.pdf" bibtex="/pages/about/vanLon2017jaamas.bib" %}

For reproducibility, the RinSim version that is used should always be mentioned. To facilitate this, RinSim is being archived at Zenodo where each RinSim version has its own link and doi. See [RinSim on Zenodo](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.595754).

## License

```
Copyright 2011-2017 Rinde van Lon

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```
